(docs) Include all Chocolatey products in Intune (#709)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/licensed-extension/intune/upgrade.md

---
Order: 45
xref: intune-upgrade
Title: Upgrading Chocolatey versions through Intune
---

<?! Include "../../../shared/intune-note.txt" /?>

## Upgrade considerations

As with all upgrades, it is highly recommended that you do a test deployment to ensure the upgrade process works in your environment prior to deploying it to all systems.

## Minor / Patch version upgrades

### Chocolatey CLI upgrade

The upgrade of Chocolatey CLI versions that have been deployed through Intune is relatively straightforward.
For example when upgrading from **v1.3.1** to **v1.4.0** of Chocolatey CLI, the process looks like this:

1. Ensure you have downloaded Chocolatey CLI v1.4.0: `choco download chocolatey --version 1.4.0`.
1. Convert the Chocolatey CLI Package: `choco convert chocolatey.1.4.0.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Push the converted package to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.1.4.0.intunewin --to=intune`.
1. Deploy the upgrade to a group of test systems before deploying to all systems.

> 1. When the deployment is ready for broad deployment, you can replace this version as the dependency on your Chocolatey Licensed Extension and Chocolatey License packages to make it more streamlined.

Reviewer: It doesn't read as super clear to me from just this note what that would entail; are the steps here documented somewhere we can link to so folks know what this means / how to do this?

Author: We don't currently have steps on how to do that, but we can add them.

Author: This is very similar to updating the License file, so I copied it and made changes.

### Chocolatey License Extension upgrade

The upgrade of Chocolatey Licensed Extension versions that have been deployed through Intune is relatively straightforward.
For example when upgrading from **v5.0.0** to **v5.0.3** of Chocolatey Licensed Extension, the process looks like this:

1. Ensure you have downloaded Chocolatey Licensed Extension v5.0.3: `choco download chocolatey.extension --version 5.0.3`.
1. Convert the Chocolatey Licensed Extension Package: `choco convert chocolatey.extension.5.0.3.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Push the converted package to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.extension.5.0.3.intunewin --to=intune`.
1. Deploy the upgrade to a group of test systems before deploying to all systems.
1. When the deployment is ready for broad deployment, you can deploy it stand alone, or you can update your existing packages to point to this new package to make it more streamlined.

## Major Versions

> :choco-info: **NOTE**
>

> > Due to version number normalization in Version 2.x of Chocolatey, care must be taken when upgrading if your license expires on a date with a single digit day or month (for example: July 31, 2024 (2024-7-31) or October 5, 2023 (2023-10-5))

Author: I'd prefer to keep the note to draw attention to it, but it would be good to add clarification around it here too.

1. Convert Chocolatey CLI: `choco convert chocolatey.<version>.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Convert Chocolatey Licensed Extension: `choco convert chocolatey.extension.<version>.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Push Chocolatey CLI to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.<version>.intunewin`.
1. Push Chocolatey Licensed Extension to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.extension.<version>.intunewin`.
1. **If your Chocolatey License package version contains a leading 0:**
   1. Navigate to the [Intune Windows apps pane](https://endpoint.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/AppsWindowsMenu/~/windowsApps) and search for `Chocolatey Licensed Extension`.
   1. For each entry here navigate to the Properties pane, scroll to Dependencies and click "Edit".
   1. Select the three dots to the right of your License Package ("Chocolatey License (v2024.06.15.100)" in above example) and select "Remove".
   1. Click "+ Add".
   1. Find and Select the license with the leading zeroes ("Chocolatey License (v2024.06.15.100)" in above example).

>    1. Click "Review + save" twice followed by "Save".

Reviewer: These steps are confusing... we're just removing the (old) license dependency and then adding back the (old) license dependency? O.o

Should one of these be the (new) license dependency (w/o the leading zeroes)?

Author: Yes, you're right. I was looking at my tenant where I had already done this step when doing this up, so I picked the wrong ones 😂 I'll get them updated 😄

1. Convert the Chocolatey CLI Package: `choco convert chocolatey.1.4.0.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Push the converted package to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.1.4.0.intunewin --to=intune`.
1. Deploy the upgrade to a group of test systems before deploying to all systems.
1. When the deployment is ready for broad deployment, you can replace this version as the dependency on your Chocolatey Licensed Extension and Chocolatey License packages to make it more streamlined.

### Chocolatey License Extension upgrade

The upgrade of Chocolatey Licensed Extension versions that have been deployed through Intune is relatively straightforward.
For example when upgrading from **v5.0.0** to **v5.0.3** of Chocolatey Licensed Extension, the process looks like this:

1. Ensure you have downloaded Chocolatey Licensed Extension v5.0.3: `choco download chocolatey.extension --version 5.0.3`.
1. Convert the Chocolatey Licensed Extension Package: `choco convert chocolatey.extension.5.0.3.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Push the converted package to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.extension.5.0.3.intunewin --to=intune`.
1. Deploy the upgrade to a group of test systems before deploying to all systems.

> When your deployment is ready for broad deployment, you have a few options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are ready for full deployment to the rest of of your computers, you have two options:
```

Reviewer 2: Rather than providing options, can we not just say 'do this'?

Author: Yeah, we definitely can do that. I've updated this section to remove the two options and just link to the updating existing packages section.

1. Deploy it stand alone.
1. [Update your existing packages](#updating-existing-chocolatey-packages).

### Updating Existing Chocolatey Packages

> When you've updated and done a test deployment of your Chocolatey Licensed Extension package, you might consider updating the Chocolatey Licensed Extension that your packages depend on. A way to do this in an upgrade from Chocolatey Licensed Extension v5.0.0 to v5.0.3 manually might look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are ready for full deployment to all computers, you need to update the Chocolatey Licensed Extension that your packages depend on by. Below is an example of how to upgrade from Chocolatey Licensed Extension v5.0.0 to v5.0.3, but the proces sis the same whatever version you are using:

```

1. Navigate to the [Intune Windows apps pane](https://endpoint.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/AppsWindowsMenu/~/windowsApps) and search for the package you want to update.

> 1. Navigate to the Properties pane, scroll to Dependencies and click "Edit".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Properties** pane, scroll to **Dependencies** and click **Edit**.

```

> 1. Select the three dots to the right of your Chocolatey Licensed Extension package (Chocolatey Licensed Extension (v5.0.0)) and select "Remove".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the three dots to the right of your Chocolatey Licensed Extension package (Chocolatey Licensed Extension (v5.0.0)) and select **Remove**.

```

> 1. Click "+ Add".
> 1. Find and Select the new Chocolatey Licensed Extension package (Chocolatey Licensed Extension (v5.0.3)).
> 1. Click "Review + save" twice followed by "Save".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **+ Add**.
1. Find and select the new Chocolatey Licensed Extension package (Chocolatey Licensed Extension (v5.0.3)).
1. Click **Review + save** twice, followed by **Save**.

```

## Major Versions

### Chocolatey Products

Due to the related dependencies and how they are typically specific across major versions of Chocolatey products, a specific upgrade process must be followed.

> For example, when upgrading from **v1.x** to a **v2.x** version of a Chocolatey product, the process looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, when upgrading from **v1.x** to a **v2.x** version of a Chocolatey product, the process is:

```

> 1. For each of the Chocolatey products that you have deployed: Ensure you are on the latest stable **v1.x** version of Chocolatey CLI, **v5.x** version of Chocolatey Licensed Extension, **v1.x** version of Chocolatey GUI, **v1.x** version of Chocolatey GUI Licensed Extension, and **v1.x** version of Chocolatey Agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you are on the latest stable versions of the Chocolatey products you have deployed. This will be **v1.x** version of Chocolatey CLI, **v5.x** version of Chocolatey Licensed Extension, **v1.x** version of Chocolatey GUI, **v1.x** version of Chocolatey GUI Licensed Extension, and **v1.x** version of Chocolatey Agent.

```

1. Verify what your "Chocolatey License" package version is in Intune (It will be in the format of `Year.Month.Day.NodeCount` with leading zeroes. For example a 100 node count license expiring June 15 2024 will be version 2024.06.15.100).

> 1. Ensure you have downloaded all of the Chocolatey products to your working directory (`choco download chocolatey chocolatey.extension chocolateygui chocolateygui.extension chocolatey-agent --ignore-depenedencies`).

Reviewer 2: Is this not different depending on license? I mentioned the include text file above?

1. Convert Chocolatey CLI: `choco convert chocolatey.<version>.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Convert Chocolatey Licensed Extension: `choco convert chocolatey.extension.<version>.nupkg --to=intune`.
1. Push Chocolatey CLI to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.<version>.intunewin`.

> 1. Push Chocolatey Licensed Extension to Intune: `choco push chocolatey.extension.<version>.intunewin`.

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify. Pushing Chocolatey CLI to Intune actually pushes all of the products up in one 'mega package'? But we also still need Chocolatey licensed Extension in Intune as well? This is my understanding, just wanting clarification.

If that is the case, can you just add a short amount of text to the Convert Chocolatey CLI line that says this is the case because if you are asking people to download all of the products the first question (I had) was why I'm just pushing CLI and CLE.

Can you also link to the FAQ you added above to say why they are downloading all of the packages?

Reviewer: Looks like that link has been added, I believe this is correct as far as I'm aware. Resolving this conversation as well.

1. If your Chocolatey License package version contains a leading 0 see the [next section](#chocolatey-license-considerations).

> 1. You can now deploy any other Chocolatey application.

Reviewer 2: What does this mean? We are also using products, package, and now application - are they the same thing? Keep the wording consistent.

Author: I've tried to be consistent and use the term "product" whenever talking about Chocolatey products (CLI, Licensed Extension, GUI, GUI Licensed Extension, Agent), and "package" to be actual packages (either nupkg, intunewin, or what is pushed into Intune). Clearly I didn't do that here. I've updated this to package, but further clarification may be needed?

### Chocolatey License Considerations

> :choco-info: **NOTE**
>

> > Due to version number normalization in Version 2.x of Chocolatey, care must be taken when upgrading if your license expires on a date with a single digit day or month (for example: July 31, 2024 (2024-7-31) or October 5, 2023 (2023-10-5)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If your license expires on a date, with a single digit day or month (for example: July 31, 2024 (2024-7-31) or October 5, 2023 (2023-10-5)) care must be taken when upgrading Chocolatey CLI due to version number normalization in version 2.x.
```

Reviewer 2: Please use the product name.

> If your Chocolatey License package version contains a leading 0; follow the preceding steps for updating Chocolatey Products, then:

Reviewer 2: Can you link to the preceding steps?

> If your Chocolatey License package version contains a leading 0; follow the preceding steps for updating Chocolatey Products, then:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your Chocolatey License package version contains a leading 0; follow the preceding steps for updating Chocolatey products, then:
```

> 1. Navigate to the [Intune Windows apps pane](https://endpoint.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/AppsWindowsMenu/~/windowsApps) and search for `Chocolatey Licensed Extension`.

Reviewer 2: Should this package name not be Chocolatey License?

Author: No, it's the Chocolatey Licensed Extension that depends on the Chocolatey License package. So, you need to go to that package and update its dependency.

> 1. For each entry here navigate to the Properties pane, scroll to Dependencies and click "Edit".
> 1. Select the three dots to the right of your License Package ("Chocolatey License (v2024.6.15.100)" in above example) and select "Remove".
> 1. Click "+ Add".
> 1. Find and Select the license with the leading zeroes ("Chocolatey License (v2024.06.15.100)" in above example).
> 1. Click "Review + save" twice followed by "Save".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. For each entry, navigate to the **Properties** pane, scroll to **Dependencies** and click **Edit**.
1. Select the three dots to the right of your License Package ("Chocolatey License (v2024.6.15.100)" in above example) and select **Remove**.
1. Click **+ Add**.
1. Find and select the license with the leading zeroes ("Chocolatey License (v2024.06.15.100)" in above example).
1. Click **Review + save** twice followed by **Save**.

```

1. Navigate to the [Intune Windows apps pane](https://endpoint.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_Intune_DeviceSettings/AppsWindowsMenu/~/windowsApps) and search for the package you want to update.
1. Navigate to the **Properties** pane, scroll to **Dependencies** and click **Edit**.
1. Select the three dots to the right of your Chocolatey Licensed Extension package (Chocolatey Licensed Extension (v5.0.0)) and select **Remove**.
1. Click **+ Add**.
1. Find and Select the new Chocolatey Licensed Extension package (Chocolatey Licensed Extension (v5.0.3)).
1. Click **Review + save** twice followed by **Save**.

## Major Versions

### Chocolatey Products

Due to the related dependencies and how they are typically specific across major versions of Chocolatey products, a specific upgrade process must be followed.
For example, when upgrading from **v1.x** to a **v2.x** version of a Chocolatey product, the process is:

> 1. Ensure you are on the latest stable versions of the Chocolatey products you have deployed. This will be **v1.x** version of Chocolatey CLI, **v5.x** version of Chocolatey Licensed Extension, **v1.x** version of Chocolatey GUI, **v1.x** version of Chocolatey GUI Licensed Extension, and **v1.x** version of Chocolatey Agent.

Reviewer 3: There is some ambiguity here compared to what is required.

To me it reads that it is the latest version **they** have deployed, but we explicitly need them to be on v1.4.0 and v5.0.3 before trying the first major upgrade of the Packages.

We should cut out the mention of `v1.x` and `v5.x` and instead use the exact version they need to be on before attempting a major upgrade.

Reviewer: I'll update this to be more specific, ty :3
